---
title: "Install"
bg: purple
color: white
fa-icon: wrench
---

## System Requirements

To run smoothly, the VM requires a minimum of:

- 4GB of RAM
- Intel or AMD processor with virtualization support (VT-x or AMD-V)
- 2 physical processor cores (dual-core)
- 50GB of free HD space
- A modern 64-bit OS (Windows 7 or newer, OSX 10.7 or newer, or Linux 3.0 or newer)

## VMware Hypervisor

The first step to installing the VM is to install
[VMware](https://www.vmware.com). This is the
[hypervisor](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypervisor) that we will use
to run the VM.

### Obtaining a license key for VMware
All students either majoring in CS or enrolled in a CS class will
automatically receive an email at the start of the semester with a link
to complete registration on the vmware webstore. The email will come from
**"University of Colorado - Department of Computer Science"** with the
subject line **"An account has been created for you"**. Follow the instructions
in this email to complete your registration. Once you are registered and
logged in, you can access the software downloads page.

To return to this store in the future, retain a copy of either the registration
email or the subsequent account confirmation email and use the link inside to
access the webstore. If you see an error message about already being registered
or that there are no products to display, click the **sign in** link near the
top right of the page and log in with your **firstname.lastname@colorado.edu**
email address and the password you set when you registered the account on
the webstore.

**Returning Students:** If you already received an email and registered on the
webstore in Fall 2017, then you WILL NOT receive another email. You can access
the webstore through the link in your email from last semester and log in
with the same account details. If you already have VMware Workstation or
VMware Fusion installed and running on your PC, then you do not need to
update and can simply install the new version of our VM into your existing
VMware installation.

_If you did not receive or can not find your registration email, please contact
[help@cs.colorado.edu](mailto:help@cs.colorado.edu) and provide your name and
@colorado.edu email address._

### Install VMware

**Windows/Linux**

If you are running a Windows or Linux operating system, click on the icon
for **VMware Workstation** and follow the instructions to add to cart, 
checkout, and download the software (you will not be charged for this). 
You will receive a serial number that you will need to copy into the program
the first time you run it. Within the program itself, this code is referred
to as a **license key**.

_Note: For Spring 2018, the VM is supported in both Workstation 12 and
Workstation 14 and will work identically._

**Mac OS**

If you are running a Mac operating system, click on the icon for
**VMware Fusion 8** or **VMware Fusion 10** and follow the instructions
to add to cart checkout, and download the software. Make note of your 
serial number as you will need to provide it once you are running the program.

_Note: For Spring 2018, the VM is supported in both Fusion 8 and Fusion 10
and will work identically._

## Import VM Image

Once VMware has been installed, we need to import the CU CS VM
image. To complete this process:

1. Locate the zipped folder you downloaded [above](#obtain) on your PC.
2. Extract the files in this folder and locate the VM image file (`.ovf` file)
3. Launch VMware (installed above)
4. From the VMware home screen, select `Open a Virtual Machine` (for VMware
   Fusion users, look for the `add` button and choose `Import existing VM`)
5. In the `Import` window that pops up, use the file picker to select
   the `*.ovf` VM image file from Step #2
5. Select `Next`
6. You may get an error message about the OVF file format; if you do, click
   `retry`. It will tell you that the VM may not work if you do this -- don't
   worry about this.
7. Wait for the import process to complete: this may take 5 to 15
   minutes depending on the speed of your PC.
9. When the import process has completed, you'll be taken to the VMware tab for
   your new VM. You can launch the VM from here by clicking the play button.
