---
title: "Alternatives"
bg: turquoise
color: white
fa-icon: arrows-alt
---

Using the VM is the simplest method to get up and running, but there
are other options available for the adventurous, advanced, or
obstinate. A few such options are discussed here.

Note that these methods are not officially support by the department. As
such, should you pursue them you'll mostly be on your own in terms of
support.

## Using VMWare instead of VirtualBox

If you prefer to use VMWare instead of VirtualBox for your VM
hypervisor, the standard VM image should support this. You will need
to obtain a VMWare license and install the VMWare software on you
machine. Academic VMWare licenses and downloads are available [through
the department](https://vmap.cs.colorado.edu/).

To use, install VMWare, [download](#obtain) the normal VM image, and
then import the `*.ova` file into VMWare. After that, the VM should
(more or less) behave in the same manner as it does in VirtualBox.

## Using a Native Linux Install

VMs are great for getting up and running quickly with minimal
hassle. That said, if you're planning on majoring in CS or otherwise
see yourself spending a lot of time working in a Linux-based
environment, you would likely benefit form a native Linux install over
using the VM. This can generally be done either as a replacement for your
current native OS (e.g. OSX or Windows) or as a dual-boot in addition
to your native OS.

For maximum compatibility with the VM environment, we recommend install
a Ubuntu LTS-based Linux distribution (e.g. Ubuntu 14.04, Xubuntu
14.04, Lubuntu 14.04, etc). If you do this, you can install the [CU CS
APT repos](https://apt.cs.colorado.edu) on your machine and then
install all the software for a given course by running:

`$ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install cu-cs-csci-<course number>`

Instructions for setting up Ubuntu can be found
[online](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/install-ubuntu-desktop). Dual-boot
direction are also [readily
available](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot). If you
require assistance setting up a Ubuntu-based Linux install, feel free
to contact [help@cs.colorado.edu](mailto:help@cs.colorado.edu).

If you wish to install a non-Ubuntu Linux variant, you'll need to
handle setting up the necessary Software for a given course on your
own. You may be Abel to translate the Ubuntu packages names into your
native package manager's names by consulting the [CU CS APT Source
Code](https://github.com/asayler/cu-cs-apt-packages). We know of CS
students successfully using Arch, Mint, Debian, and a variety of other
non-Ubuntu Linux flavors.

## Using Your Native OS

While Linux is great for a wide range of CS work, you may be able to
get away with working directly in your native OS. To do so, you'll
likely need to install a text editor (e.g. vim, emacs, sublime) or IDE
(e.g. eclipse, netbeans, etc), as well as the language you plan to work
in (e.g. python, C++, C, etc). The process for doing this various by
system: try Google-ing.
