---
title: "Intro"
bg: white
color: black
---

<div class="center">    
     <span class="center fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:100px; background:#e8e8e8">
           <i class="fa fa-circle fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
           <i class="fa fa-desktop fa-stack-1x text-black"></i>
     </span>
     <br>
     <br>
</div>

# CU CS Virtual Machine

### Fall 2018 Edition

The CU CS VM provides a free, local Linux-based development system
similar to what we run in
[our labs](https://csel.cs.colorado.edu). It is primarily used in CS
undergraduate courses to ensure all students, teachers, and TAs are
using the same standardized environment.

Here you can find information on [obtaining](#obtain),
[installing](#install), [using](#usage), and [troubleshooting](#faq)
the CU CS Virtual Machine.

If you would like to setup the VM yourself, [scroll down](#obtain) or
use the navigation links above to continue.

**IMPORTANT CHANGES AS OF SUMMER 2018 --- READ THIS**

*ordered from most to least recent change*

- Due to kernel panic issues with the previous VMs for Summer and Spring 2018, a new Summer version has been released. The download links below will give you the image for Summer 2018 version 2 --- if you are having problems with your VM launching and downloaded the image BEFORE 06/20/2018, we recommend downloading and installing the new version in its place.
- the VM will **NOT** be distributed through flash drives or during recitations any more. To obtain the VM, you will need to use one of the links [below](#obtain) to download your own copy.
- Starting in Fall 2017, we switched from Oracle VirtualBox to VMware Fusion/Workstation for running the VM. Please see the instructions beneath [install](#install) for details on installing VMware


## Getting Help

If you are having difficulty downloading, installing, or running the VM,
please come to office hours during the following times:

**Weekly on MONDAY, TUESDAY, THURSDAY 9 - 11am**

- Location: ECOT 737
- Ask for Tim Coleman or Brett Shouse

**TUESDAY 8/28: 3 - 5pm**

- Location: ENVD 201 (Environmental Design)
- Ask for Ethan Hanner

**WEDNESDAY 8/29: 3 - 5pm**
- Location: ENVD 201 (Environmental Design)
- Ask for Ethan Hanner 


_Note: If you need to set up another time or would like to get help remotely, 
contact the CSEL support staff at [help@cs.colorado.edu](mailto:help@cs.colorado.edu)._
