---
title: "FAQ"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: question
---

If you encounter issues using the VM not addressed below, please
contact
[help@cs.colorado.edu](mailto:help@cs.colorado.edu). Alternatively, you may 
consult your course staff.

## Questions

#### Why can't I log in to Dropbox on the VM?

There is currently an issue with the Firefox browser that prevents users
from logging into their Dropbox accounts. They are given an error that their
credentials are invalid. Rather than trying to troubleshoot the issue in
Firefox, we recommend a work-around:

1. Go to the start menu (blue icon in the top left of the VM) and open
Google Chrome
2. When prompted, set Google Chrome as your default browser
3. Restart the VM (go to the start menu, select the power icon in the bottom
right corner, and then choose 'Restart')

When the VM starts back up, a Dropbox browser window will come back up, but
this time in Google Chrome. You should be able to log in normally.

#### What is the username and password on the VM?

The default username:password combo is `user:user`. You may change
this password if you desire by running `passwd` from a terminal.

As on most Debian-based system, the root account is disabled. Use
`sudo` if you need to run privileged commands. 

#### How do I fix a CPU error when trying to boot my VM?

If you receive an error message along the lines of:

{% highlight text linenos=table %}
The CPU has been disabled by the guest operating system. Power off
or reset the virtual machine.
{% endhighlight %}

or:

{% highlight text linenos=table %}
VMware Workstation unrecoverable error: (vcpu-0)

vcpu-0:VERIFY vmcore/vmm/main/cpuid.c:386 bugNr=1036521

A log file is available in 
"C:\Users\<user>\Documents\Virtual Machines\<VM Name>\vmware.log".
{% endhighlight %}

Or your VM boots into a black screen with a white underscore cursor, it
generally means VMware is having trouble getting your processor to
support virtualization. This is normally due to one of the following
issues:

- Your machine supports virtualization, but it has been disabled in the
  BIOS
- Your machine does not support virtualization

To correct the former case, boot into your machine's BIOS and enable the
virtualization setting. The exact process for this differs by machine
(try Google or consult your machine's user manual). The following steps
are provided for convenience, but MAY NOT BE correct on your machine.

To boot into the BIOS and enable virtualization on _most_ Windows 10 machines:

1. Open your start menu and search for "Settings", then open it
2. Choose "Update & Security"
3. On the left-hand menu, select "Recovery"
4. Scroll down until you see "Advanced Startup", then click "Restart Now".
Your machine will shut down for a moment, then come back up on a blue
screen with a few different choices.
5. Choose "Troubleshoot"
6. Choose "Advanced options"
7. Select "UEFI Firmware Settings".
8. Click restart.
9. After a moment, your PC should boot back up on a black screen with a few
different options listed. Look for "BIOS Settings" on the list and press the
indicated Fn key (usually it is F10; your function keys are located on the
top row of your keyboard).
10. You'll be taken to the BIOS. Note that you can only navigate in the BIOS
using your arrow keys and the enter key.
11. Look for an option labeled something like "Intel VT-x", "Intel 
Virtualization Technology", or "Virtualization Support".
The option is usually under either Security or Configuration, though it could
be elsewhere. Sometimes there are two settings related to virtualization -
make sure to enable both. (To enable: move the arrow keys until the
virtualization setting is highlighted, press enter, use the arrow keys to select "enabled", then press enter).
12. Save and exit the BIOS. (You should see a keyboard shortcut at the bottom
of the screen for doing this, or you can exit through the menu)
13. Let the PC reboot. Log back in, then try to launch the VM again.

See [this article](https://www.laptopmag.com/articles/access-bios-windows-10)
on Laptop Mag (external site) for images of how to boot into the BIOS.

In the latter case (e.g. if you find no virtualization settings in
your BIOS), you may have to either upgrade your computer, install Linux
alongside your host operating system in dual boot mode, or use the machines
in CSEL (ECCS128).

#### Why is the network not working on the VM?

The VM takes the network connection from the host operating system as an
Ethernet connection. If you are not connected to the Internet on the VM, then
the problem is most likely that you are not connected on your host.

Check your network settings on your host operating system and ensure you are
connected. If you are connecting to UCBWireless or UCBGuest, you may need
to open on a browser window (on your host OS) and authenticate through OIT.

If you are certain that you are connected on your host OS (i.e., web pages
are loading properly, no errors are showing in your connection status), but
still cannot connect on the VM, then check the [Getting Help](#intro) section
above for office hours or contact 
[help@cs.colorado.edu](mailto:help@cs.colorado.edu).
